Reviewer 4 of ICRA 2014 submission 12

Comments to the author
======================

In this article, authors present their analysis on
controlling multiple robots to desired positions with
global inputs and stationary obstacles in 2D environment.
Motivated by this method of permutation, they prove that
finding an optimal control sequence for such path planning
problem is PSPACE-complete. Also, this technique of
transforming initial configuration to desired configuration
could be used on micro and nano robots in different fields
such as medical science and biological research. The
benefits also includes application on robotic systems such
as Boolean logic gate design.

The paper is well-organized. Authors clearly state the
problem and describe how they apply global move sequences
step by step to solve the problem. In the paper, some
examples and figures are provided which are quite helpful
for readers to understand. Also, the complexity proof about
PSPACE-complete is important to this area.

In Fig. 2, there is a small mistake in the diagram picture
of the bottom case. 
[[[FIXED, AARON]]]
The techniques on matrix permutation is
impressive. However, it still has some limitations such as
the size of space and the number of obstacles it requires.
Moreover, in the proof of Theorem 1, it is a little
confusing on the obstacles’ coordinates notation. For
example, authors denote the bottom left unit as (0,0), but
in Move 1, the first obstacle starts with (2,n+1) as i=1
which is not satisfied with the technique in this case.
[[ check these again ]]
Then, this technique is extended to arbitrary permutation
with two base permutations. But in real life, some networks
may or may not meet such requirements so that the
permutations may not work. For the logic gate, authors
present some dual-rail gadgets with the use of stationary
obstacles. But due to they are conservative logic, some
limitations exist. Also, authors could consider giving some
examples of applying such gadgets in real life.   [[ we'll reserve that for future work]]

Overall, authors' work is impressive on matrix permutation,
complexity proof and logic gate design. More concrete real
life application examples could be added to indicate the
importance of this technique. Also, the complexity proof is
more like a computer science topic. The only relation to
robotics is that this technique could be applied on robots,
as well as any other object which would be affected by
global controlling sequences. 

Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

Nice video