Reviewer 5 of ICRA 2014 submission 12

Comments to the author
======================

This paper describes an extension of previous work that
explores the computational complexity of an approach for
(locally) manipulating a collective or swarm of agents
using global control inputs, as well as its algorithmic and
experimental implementation.  The main contributions of
this work includes the theoretical analysis of the proposed
variant of the block-pushing problems found in the
literature, including proof of the problem's complexity
residing in PSPACE-complete, by relation to previously
known results. Additionally, the work extends previous work
to construct particle logic gates that leverage dual-rail
logic to allow for various logical outputs for given
inputs.

The paper is well-written and clearly presented (nice
job!), and distinctly represents interesting work, both
theoretically and also from an emerging application area
for particle or swarm robotics.  The illustrative
simulation examples and companion multimedia are useful for
clarifying and showcasing the presented work. The technical
details are also thorough and complete, and offer good
insights for follow-on research and applications.  The
bibliography is recognized to be both appropriately broad
and relevant.

Despite some of the strong assumptions necessary for both
the analysis and also the physical implementation (e.g.,
rails to avoid bearings from "hopping" in unintended
directions), the presented work is both interesting and
compelling.


Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

The video attachment helps to illustrate the presented
approach and is well-constructed.