Reviewer 2 of ICRA 2015 submission 20

Comments to the author
======================

This paper gave an impossibility theorem about the
construction of a Fan-Out gate in a form of mechanical
computation, in which 1x1 particles are manipulated en
masse by an external force field such as gravity or
magnetic field.  To circumvent this problem, the design of
a Fan-Out gate using 1x2 particles is given. This provided
the last missing piece of the puzzle in the so-called
particle computation. A prototype of this computation
mechanism was given.

Conducting computation mechanically using gravity or other
external forces at the nano scale is an interesting and
creative idea. However, it is not clear why this particular
form of particle computation is important. More
importantly, the rules governing the movement of particles
seems ad hoc, and changing the rule a little bit would have
a dramatic effect on the design.  The use of the 2x1 robots
makes thing more complicated and unnatural.

The paper is well-written, but there are some typos and
mistakes. It will be helpful to define the dual-rail logic
before Section 3.  In Lemma 1, what does "or if r fails to
hit robots it did hit before" mean? In the proof of
Corollary 5, it is not clear why "Because W is conservative
there must also be one additional input location sr and
robot r." The IDs of the figures are out of order.  In
Figure 5 and 4, <d, l, d, r> should be <d, l, u, r>. In
Figure 4, <d> should be <d, l>.  In the conclusion, it is
not clear how the necessity of dual-rail logic for Boolean
logic was established in this paper. Finally, I would not
call a particle a nanorobot.

Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

The video is well-made.