Reviewer 6 of ICRA 2015 submission 20

Comments to the author
======================

The authors present an extension of their previous work
presented at ICRA 2014, in which they simply devise a
FAN-OUT gate. 

The overall idea of controlling a large number of
minimalist robots using some global strategy is
interesting, as described in the authors’ previous works.
This specific paper only tries to further extend that by
designing a FAN-OUT gate to achieve the full computational
universality required.

The paper is generally well-written and a can be considered
as a good sequel of the authors’ previous work. Yet, there
are mistakes that should be avoided in this type of
high-ranked conferences. Namely, even the title of their
previous paper published at ICRA 2014 is wrong: “Particle
Computation: Designing Worlds to Control Robot Swarms with
only Global Signals” instead of “Particle computation:
Controlling robot swarms with only global signals”. The
paper is too lengthy to present content that sometimes is
not that new or irrelevant. For instance, what is the point
of Table II? Logical operations are well-known in
engineering and computer science – this can be simply
removed.

Anyway, the most flimsy part of the paper are the
experimental results. Section V describes a prototype
though most of it mainly focus on the description of the
setup instead of discussing the results obtained. As such,
it is rather hard to grasp the relevance of the addition of
the FAN-OUT gate and, as such, the whole contribution of
the work.


Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

The video, although simplistic, depicts the idea presented
by the authors.