Reviewer 3 of ICRA 2014 submission 12

Comments to the author
======================

This paper describes an intriguing manifestation of
permutation groups, and how they may be used to employ
robotic systems in physical calculations.

Global control in either direction along two axes is used
to effect maximal movement of individual agents in that
direction: agents move in a cardinal direction until they
hit an obstacle. In this framework, the task of moving each
agent to its specified location is shown to be
PSPACE-complete. The proof of this result is generally due
to Jerrum, who considered more traditional generators of
permutation groups, which the authors here apply to the
described motion planning problem.

The authors go on to describe how such motion strategies
may be used to implement boolean logic circuits using
dual-rail logic where each state and its complement are
always represented.

The paper is enjoyable, and the solution to the matrix
permutation problem is both attractively simple, and an
effective demonstration of the space requirements of the
problem. As a corollary to thinking about permutation
groups, this is very neat, and a refreshing change of
scenery from the usual considerations of grammars and
productions.

(TODO: BIG ISSUE)

It is therefore unfortunate that the connection to robotics
is left so tenuously suggested. While the authors bookend
the paper with descriptions of practical considerations and
problem domains where large numbers of robots under limited
control may be useful, they do very little to convince the
reader that the results here are particularly relevant. Why
is instrumenting the environment with obstacles in order to
control the behavior of micro- and nano-robots a reasonable
avenue of investigation? I think a stronger argument can be
made than what is given here.

On its own merits, the work is interesting, and the
authors' exploration of the problem is clear and enjoyable.
But I have to wonder about the novelty of the core claim of
PSPACE-completeness in light of the existing literature.
Introducing this work to a robotics audience is a wonderful
cause, (TODO) but it should be better grounded in the robotics
context to have the most impact. The area of global control
is certainly relevant, and it is reasonable to think that
this work may prove to be a useful exploration of one
variant of the problem. I suspect that further work
adapting such systems to found environments will be of
interest to a robotics audience.


Comments on the Video Attachment
================================

The hardware implementation is tremendously charming.